# What is Asgard

Asgard is what bootstraps cogs to TCore. Asgard is the middleware between TCore and client applications. We use it to handle communication between cogs and clients, which happens through post requests sent to Asgard. To put it simply, Asgard is an API endpoint hosted on your local device. Developers can send POST requests to Asgard to get things done using TCore. The core functionality of TCore revolves around Asgard, and this is what anyone wanting to create an app which makes use of a TCore cog would need to use. To access it, you need to ping localhost:8080/asgard. This can also be accessed over a local network by pinging the IP address displayed on the TCore mobile app's notification.

We use TCli to bootstrap cogs. Cogs have a very specific folder structure, and messing with this structure will cause it to stop functioning.

## Structure of a request

As I mentioned before, communication between TCore and client apps happens through POST requests. This is because we need to attach a body with all the important payload for Asgard. This is how a POST request to Asgard looks like

```json
{
  "hook": "test-cog", // Name of the cog
  "action": "hello", // Action is same as functions on mobile version of TCore
  "function": "hello", // Which function to execute
  "params": [] // Any inputs which are to be passed to the cog
}
```

Asgard will then return a response to the request with the final processed data provided by the cog.

```json
{
  "code": 200,
  "data": {
    "msg": "Hello World!" // This is the return we get from the function
  }
}
```

::alert{type="warning"}
Asgard functions like a normal API.
It follows the same spec as HTTP for error codes.
The maximum timeout is **300ms**.
::

## Connecting to Asgard

Asgard is just a simple API. Hence, there are several ways to "connect". The simplest way is by using POST requests, which ping `localhost:8080/asgard` as detailed above. This is a good way and has no limitations. But this can result in hard-to-read code. For this very reason, we have libraries which act as a wrapper around the POST requests made to Asgard. These libraries are `TCoreLIB.JS`(or tcore.js on npm) and `TCoreLIB.Dart`. To get started with these libraries, head on over to this github repo.
